Documentation for the 4 isolated nodes feature (#90)
CityOfZion/neo-local: documentation/Readme.md

> <p align="center">

Reviewer: This file should be named `README.md` to be inline with the other root README file.

Author: Agree

</p>

<h1 align="center">neo-local</h1>

<p align="center">
  Personal private blockchain for NEO dApp development!
</p>

## Table of contents

- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [What's included](#whats-included)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Customizing](#customizing)
- [Tricks and tweaks](#tricks-and-tweaks)
- [Bugs and feature requests](#bugs-and-feature-requests)
- [license](#license)

## Quick start

Fast and easy to start from the ground:

- Install docker and docker-compose for your platform: 
    - Linux [Docker](https://store.docker.com/search?offering=community&operating_system=linux&q=&type=edition) - [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#install-compose)
    - Mac [Docker and docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/)
    - Windows [Docker and docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/)
- Download the latest version of [neo-local](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo-local/archive/master.zip)
    - or clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo-local.git`
- Move to the folder neo-local
- Start all with the command `make start`
- Wait some seconds and you will have neo-python prompt available

> - You can also start you browser and go to [neo-local-faucet](http://localhost:4002) and claim some NEO and GAS to a wallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can also start your browser and go to [neo-local-faucet](http://localhost:4002) and claim some NEO and GAS to a wallet
```

> That will make a private neo-blockchain just for you to develop your dApp or smart-contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That will make a private NEO blockchain just for you to develop your dApp or smart-contract.
```

Author: done

> To stop the neo-local, exit from neo-python prompt and do the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop neo-local, exit from neo-python prompt and do the following command:
```

```
make stop
```

## What's included

Within the neo-local you'll find the following services:

> The project is made up of the following services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- [neo-local-faucet](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo-local-faucet) (dev faucet)
- [neo-cli](https://github.com/neo-project/neo-cli) (consensus nodes)
- [neo-python](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo-python) (development CLI)
- [neo-scan-api](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo-scan) (block explorer)
- [neo-scan-sync](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo-scan) (block explorer)
- [postgres](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/) (database for neo-scan)

<img src="./assets/neo-local_ecosystem.jpg" width="800" height="400" />

## Usage

> After running the neo-local ecosystem (using the [Quick start](#quick-start)) you will land in the neo-python prompt.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running neo-local (see [Quick start](#quick-start)) you will land in the neo-python prompt.<br>
```

> Consensus nodes are available on localhost ports 20333, 20334, 20335 and 20336.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consensus nodes are available on `localhost` ports `20333`, `20334`, `20335` and `20336`.<br>
```

> Or by RPC localhost 30333, 30334, 30335 and 30336.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or by RPC on `localhost` ports `30333`, `30334`, `30335` and `30336`.
```

> There's also two folders shared with neo-python running container. Everything you put there is available to be used inside the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also two folders shared with the neo-python running container. Everything you put there is available to be used inside the container.
```

```
neo-local/
├── wallets/
├── smart-contracts/
```

## Customizing

> Neo-local has four neo-cli consensus nodes as block producers. The version of those nodes can be customized by you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Four neo-cli consensus nodes are started as block producers. The version of those nodes can be customized by you.
```

You can start neo-local with a different or even all different versions at the same time.

To change the default versions you just need to edit the ".env" file
```
neo-local/
├── .env
```
and change the variables above
```
# neo-cli version
# Other supported versions: 2.9.0, 2.8.0, 2.7.6.1
NODE1_NEO_CLI_VERSION=2.8.0
NODE2_NEO_CLI_VERSION=2.7.6.1
NODE3_NEO_CLI_VERSION=2.8.0
NODE4_NEO_CLI_VERSION=2.9.0
```

## Tricks and tweaks

### Monitoring your nodes

> If you want to monitor your consensus nodes you can use this little script that makes two RPC calls querying the version of the node and the blockcount. It will keep looping and showing you the results in a table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to monitor your consensus nodes, you can use this little script that makes two RPC calls querying the version of the node and the blockcount. It will keep looping and showing you the results in a table.
```
